Notes about possible future directions in libreswan debian packaging
====================================================================

Location of NSS db
------------------

The NSS database in /etc/ipsec.d/ (the files cert9.db, key4.db, and
pkcs11.txt) seems awkward.  If they had their own directory they would
not be mixed in with *.conf and *.secret, and would be easier/safer to
clean up in postrm, as there appears to be no standard tool from NSS
for safely destroying such a database.

Also, since the admin is not expected to typically modify these files
by hand (some exceptions are noted in
https://libreswan.org/wiki/Using_NSS_with_libreswan), they might be
better placed someplace like /var/lib/libreswan instead of
/etc/ipsec.d/.  However, divergence from upstream seems like the worse
option here, especially since users are likely to read upstream
documentation as well as in-package documentation.

Service status at package installation
--------------------------------------

libreswan currently ships with an ipsec.service, which is deliberately
not enabled by default, since it is usually meaningless to enable such
a service without manual configuration.  The configuration necessary
is probably too complex to put sanely into debconf.

If an opportunistic/no-configuration-needed mode is functional and
well-tested enough to run without configuration, we may enable the
service by default in future versions.

Integration with non-systemd initsystems
----------------------------------------

The Debian packaging currently only supports integration with systemd.
It looks like upstream's sysvinit support is relatively untested, and
other initsystems are not supported upstream at all.  If anyone wants
to test and help maintain support for alternate initsystems (possibly
in a separate binary package, e.g. libreswan-runit) that would be
welcome!
